---
layout:     post
title:      "Becoming sports"
subtitle:   "Comparison between esports and traditional sports"
date:       2018-06-01
author:     "Author"
header-img: "img/bg2.jpg"
tags:
    - Industrial
    - Business
---

> With the rapid growth of the e-sports industry, no doubt people starting wondering -- should we take it more seriously?

For major brand like Coca-Cola, they’ve already gone one step ahead of most of us and started its investment in e-sports industry. This is not a rational decision. E-sports premising future can be shown from reports which suggest quickly-rising revenue of hundreds of million dollars.

Some entrepreneurs noticed the opportunity, especially those who already devoted themselves into fields of traditional sports, figuring their chances of making full use of their experience gained from traditional sports to make huge profit without paying extra effort. Ideally, the well developed profiting-model used in traditional sports can cut down great expenses, earning exhilarating amount of money. How is this “short-cut” influencing different aspects and what are the concerns for us to look out for?

For businessman trying to make a quick fortune out of the industry, this seems like a perfect plan. Their connections with business partners from traditional sports industry can help them easily find sponsors and broadcasters for the e-sports event or e-sports team they are trying to promote. In addition, they experience of human resource management can help them handle their professional players and their coaches. Also, their functioning and experienced legal department will pull them through the challenges they might face with a more standardized and legislated industry of e-sports.

However, the new-born industry sure has its new aspects for those skilled businessman to pay more attention to. If they solely use the traditional ways of broadcasting, like using television and radio, it might not work as well as traditional sports. The sudden rise of e-sports industry thanks to the wide use and well spread of personal digital devices and computers. Nowadays, most of the e-sports tournaments are live streaming online. 

Some might argue, isn’t the rise of e-sports on traditional broadcasters a good chance to expand the viewer group? People holding this kind of wishful thinking neglect the fact that those who are still using TV or radio are mostly the old-fashions who have little likelihood to suddenly turn to watch streaming video games. Spending huge amount of effort to gain little rise on viewership return poorly and might even be in vain.

For those who are trying to make it big in the e-sports industry, it’s crucial to make connection with the live streaming platform But there still are things to concern.

The online platform sure can spread news quickly and widely enough to reach all kinds of people. The provide business opportunity for professional players and sponsors. They now can promote their ideas and products easier than ever. E-ports professional players are now more than capable be become house-hold names just like stars in traditional sports fields. Their personal business value and public influence can not be underestimate. 

However, the make up today’s online viewer is really complex. Any misbehavior might leads to bad influence to the large group of young viewers. Any scandal can turn to be really ugly online. More burdens are on the e-sports stars’ shoulders and they face more challenges.

Just like traditional sports field, many serious social problems are concerned. Take gender discrimination and cheating in games for example, they both exist in traditional sports and e-sports. They already are some discuss upon those problems. E-sports industry can gain experience from traditional sports and establish its own regulations base on the current rules in effect in traditional sports fields. This can save people a lot of energy.

There’s more than that. With the convenience provide by online viewers of e-sports, those social problems now can raise much more concerns and can start hit debate among people. In this way, people will find better solution for all those problems and might even find out the root of those problems and make our society a better place.

With the long history of the development of traditional sports, there are plenty of things e-sports can make good use of. Nevertheless, the people should always keep in mind that there are things that makes e-sports different from other kinds of sports. Neglecting this feature might lead people into troubles. Innovation and courage will help people gain achievement in the unplug field in e-sports.

