---
layout:     post
title:      "Please find a more innovative title"
subtitle:   "Rules and control of e-sports industry"
date:       2018-06-02
author:     "Author"
header-img: "img/post-bg-js-version.jpg"
tags:
    - Gender
    - Players
---

The trend of E-sports has brought considerable chances and problems. The e-sports industry also has been a booming industry with thousands of professionals devoting and thousands of sponsors contributing.

At the same time, many voices of opposition or doubt are emerging. Here, we will discuss the rules and control of e-sports industry based on the reality and opinions.

## Should we impose stricter regulations on e-sports? 

As more people and assets enter the industry, we must see the chaos that exists in e-sports industries, such as vicious competition, intellectual property damage, personal property and reputational damage. The confusion is clearly rooted in lack of management and rules.

In addition to the constraints of the industry itself, we find that more and more governments are taking the initiative to play the role of managers and guiders in the e-sports industry

In China, in the recent two sessions, representatives of all walks of life, including government officials, E-sports investors and electronic economic participants, have made a fierce confrontation on the authority and supervision of the government in the e-sports industry.

For network game, everyone has their own opinion, there are many representatives spoke some opinions for the game. For example, Hu Wanning, vice chairman of Chinese people's political consultative conference (CPPCC) of Tangshan city, Hebei province claims more radically that online game is the spirit of drug, for the online game should be finished with a sigle blow. While Ma huateng, as the chief executive of the biggest game company in China, will definitely talk more about the positive side of online games, but feel a punch in the hand. On the other hand, it is suggested that the game grading system should be improved as soon as possible, control the children's game time, regulate the advertising of game advertisements, and raise the industry tax of the game. For instance, the representative of the National People's Congress (NPC) proposed that the dissemination of e-sports and online games should be strictly controlled from the national level, with the implementation of hierarchical management and real-name system. It is recommended that the state formulate relevant regulations to restrict the production of games or other bad advertising links on the mainstream websites, and prevent the induction of teenagers. Additionally, it is proposed to raise taxes on the game industry so that it can pay higher costs while making profits.

Conclusively, with the rapid development of e-sports, the corresponding regulatory measures and the focus from government are far from satisfactory, compared with South Korea's perfect networking monitoring measures. Due to the age the class constraints, Chinese representatives will focus more on the supervision of the game and the guidance of young people. Most representatives believe that the teenagers' addiction in e-sports, and the resulting economic burden and physiological burdens are very harmful for the development of the youth. Chinese politicians are more conservative and moderate, still watching the more serious negative effects of e-sports on the society and citizens, which gives the e-sports industry more space to develop, but also slow down the pace of imposing supervision on the industry.

In contrast, the organizational structure of South Korea can be described by "strict bureaucracy under traditional authority"[3]. From some Korean TV dramas, news and articles, we can find that the system and system of South Korea's political and economic organizations are very strict and rigorous, such as respect for superior and near unconditional obedience. In the emerging E-sports organization, all of those also exist. The South Korean club takes a semi-militarized management of the players. There is a complete set of rules and regulations inside the club, and these systems are not set up, but are strictly enforced. The activities of the players are arranged by the timetable, the time of the practice and the training are fixed clearly; at the same time, the individual activities of the players are also controlled. For example, in the spare time, it is a very common situation in China that many professionals have their own live rooms. In Korea, in general, only strong star players have the right to live their own life. [3] From the club supervision in Korea, it can be seen that the system of e-sports industry in Korea is perfect and strict. From the state to the club, the rules are graded at different levels, and the restrictions on individuals are very strict.

Korea's e-sports industry started early and developed rapidly, and has become the world's leader of e-sports industry and the most important participant. France, as a late-developing participant in the e-sports industry, has made its own choice on the restraint and control of the e-sports industry.

In the Mar 20, 2016, the France government released a 75 page report on e-sports. The report aims at giving legislative solutions to help French e-sports grow. [2]
It suggests 11 propositions, divided into five main points: the status of competitions, the protection of minors, distribution elements, player’s status, and structuring esports. Here’s a short summary of each proposition. [2] For example, under this proposal, minors would need a parental authorization to play, along with being informed about the Pan European Game Information (PEGI) rank of the game they are about to play. Compared to China, representatives still debate about how to control teenagers playing online games. The French government is paying more attention to the e-sports industry, and they are moving forward faster.

In conclusion, the proper supervision of e-sports industry is a consensus among governments. However, the degree and depth of supervision need to be further explored. Too strict control will hurt the enthusiasm of the industry, while too loose management will make the industry continue to develop in an unhealthy direction. 

